program.md, before:

# Experiment 2 - Part A:  **Experiment Name**

## Aim

## Objective


## Prerequisites
- Flutter SDK installed on your machine
- A code editor of your choice (e.g., Visual Studio Code)

## Procedure

1. Create a new Flutter project by running the following command in your terminal:
    ```cmd
    flutter create my_flutter_app
    ```
    The command creates a Flutter project directory called `my_flutter_app` that contains a simple demo app that uses [Material Components](https://m3.material.io/components).

2. Change to the Flutter project directory.
    ```cmd
    cd my_flutter_app
    ```
3. Open the `lib/main.dart` file in your Flutter project.

4. Replace the existing code with the following code snippet:


5. Save the file.

6. Run your Flutter project using the following command:
    ```cmd
    flutter run
    ```
7. During the app execution, you can use the following commands:
    - Enter `r` to hot reload the app and see the changes you made to the code.
    - Enter `q` to quit the app.


## Expected Output
![exp_2_b_output]()


## Conclusion


## References
- [Flutter Layout](https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/layout)
- [Flutter Layout Cheat Sheet](https://medium.com/flutter-community/flutter-layout-cheat-sheet-5363348d037e)

Commit message:

feat: Add device selection prompt for running Flutter apps

program.md, after:

# Experiment 2 - Part A:  **Experiment Name**

## Aim

## Objective


## Prerequisites
- Flutter SDK installed on your machine
- A code editor of your choice (e.g., Visual Studio Code)

## Procedure

1. Create a new Flutter project by running the following command in your terminal:
    ```cmd
    flutter create my_flutter_app
    ```
    The command creates a Flutter project directory called `my_flutter_app` that contains a simple demo app that uses [Material Components](https://m3.material.io/components).

2. Change to the Flutter project directory.
    ```cmd
    cd my_flutter_app
    ```
3. Open the `lib/main.dart` file in your Flutter project.

4. Replace the existing code with the following code snippet:


5. Save the file.

6. Run your Flutter project using the following command:
    ```cmd
    flutter run
    ```
    Select the appropriate device to run the app.

7. During the app execution, you can use the following commands:
    - Enter `r` to hot reload the app and see the changes you made to the code.
    - Enter `q` to quit the app.


## Output
![exp_2_b_output]()


## Conclusion


## References
- [Flutter Layout](https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/layout)
- [Flutter Layout Cheat Sheet](https://medium.com/flutter-community/flutter-layout-cheat-sheet-5363348d037e)
