exp_3_a/README.md, before:

# Experiment 3 - Part A:  **Responsive UI**
## Aim

To design a responsive UI that adapts to different screen sizes.

## Objective

The objective of this experiment is to create a Flutter project that demonstrates the concept of responsive UI design. The UI should adjust its layout and appearance based on the screen size of the device.

## Prerequisites
- Flutter SDK installed on your machine
- A code editor of your choice (e.g., Visual Studio Code)

## Procedure

1. Create a new Flutter project by running the following command in your terminal:
    ```cmd
    flutter create my_flutter_app
    ```
    This command will create a Flutter project directory called `my_flutter_app` that contains a simple demo app using [Material Components](https://m3.material.io/components).

2. Change to the Flutter project directory:
    ```cdm
    cd my_flutter_app
    ```

3. Open the `lib/main.dart` file in your Flutter project.

4. Replace the existing code with the following code snippet:

    ```dart
    import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

    void main() {
    runApp(const MainApp());
    }

    class MainApp extends StatelessWidget {
    const MainApp({super.key});

    @override
    Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return const MaterialApp(
        title: 'Responsive UI',
        home: ResponsiveHomePage(),
        );
    }
    }

    class ResponsiveHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
    const ResponsiveHomePage({super.key});

    @override
    Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
            title: const Text('Responsive UI'),
        ),
        body: LayoutBuilder(
            builder: (BuildContext context, BoxConstraints constraints) {
            if (constraints.maxWidth >= 600) {
                // For Wide Screen (Tablet/Desktop)
                return _buildWideContainers();
            } else {
                // For Narrow Screen (Phone)
                return _buildNarrowContainers();
            }
            },
        ),
        );
    }

    Widget _buildWideContainers() {
        return Container(
        color: Colors.blue,
        child: const Center(
            child: Text(
            'You are using a Wide screen!',
            style: TextStyle(
                fontSize: 26, color: Colors.white, fontWeight: FontWeight.bold),
            ),
        ),
        );
    }

    Widget _buildNarrowContainers() {
        return Container(
        color: Colors.green,
        child: const Center(
            child: Text(
            'You are using a Narrow screen!',
            style: TextStyle(fontSize: 16, color: Colors.white),
            ),
        ),
        );
    }
    }
    ```

5. Save the file.

6. Run your Flutter project using the following command:
    ```cdm
    flutter run
    ```

7. To hot reload the app and see the changes you made to the code, enter `r`. To quit the app, enter `q`.

## Output
<video controls src="exp_3_a_output.mp4" title="exp_3_a_output"></video>

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/480131a3-2863-49f2-971e-179dbe8835cf


### Extra Practice

To further enhance your understanding of responsive UI design in Flutter, you can try to implement the following additional features:

1. Divide the screen into multiple sections based on the screen size.

<video controls src="Recording 2024-07-13 203728.mp4" title="exp_3_a_practice"></video>


https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cfa0fa74-b4a9-4318-90e4-7c64c873dd2a


<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

void main() {
  runApp(const MainApp());
}

class MainApp extends StatelessWidget {
  const MainApp({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return const MaterialApp(
      title: 'Responsive UI',
      home: ResponsiveHomePage(),
    );
  }
}

class ResponsiveHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  const ResponsiveHomePage({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      appBar: AppBar(
        title: const Text('Responsive UI'),
      ),
      body: LayoutBuilder(
        builder: (BuildContext context, BoxConstraints constraints) {
          if (constraints.maxWidth >= 600) {
            // For Wide Screen (Tablet/Desktop)
            return _buildLargeScreenLayout();
          } else {
            // For Narrow Screen (Phone)
            return _buildSmallScreenLayout();
          }
        },
      ),
    );
  }

  Widget _buildLargeScreenLayout() {
    return Row(
      children: <Widget>[
        Expanded(
          child: Container(
            color: Colors.blue,
            child: const Center(
              child: Text(
                'Left Container\n(Wide Screen)',
                style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontSize: 24),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
        Expanded(
          child: Container(
            color: Colors.green,
            child: const Center(
              child: Text(
                'Right Container\n(Wide Screen)',
                style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontSize: 24),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
      ],
    );
  }

  Widget _buildSmallScreenLayout() {
    return Column(
      children: <Widget>[
        Expanded(
          child: Container(
            color: Colors.blue,
            child: const Center(
              child: Text(
                'Top Container\n(Narrow Screen)',
                style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontSize: 24),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
        Expanded(
          child: Container(
            color: Colors.green,
            child: const Center(
              child: Text(
                'Bottom Container\n(Narrow Screen)',
                style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontSize: 24),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
      ],
    );
  }
}
```
</details>

## Conclusion

In this experiment, we successfully designed a responsive UI that adapts to different screen sizes using Flutter. The UI layout and appearance adjust dynamically based on the screen size of the device, providing an optimal user experience.

## References

- [Adaptive and responsive design (Flutter)](https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/adaptive-responsive)
- [Responsive design techniques (Microsoft)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/design/layout/responsive-design)

Commit message:

feat: Add device selection prompt for running Flutter apps

exp_3_a/README.md, after:

# Experiment 3 - Part A:  **Responsive UI**
## Aim

To design a responsive UI that adapts to different screen sizes.

## Objective

The objective of this experiment is to create a Flutter project that demonstrates the concept of responsive UI design. The UI should adjust its layout and appearance based on the screen size of the device.

## Prerequisites
- Flutter SDK installed on your machine
- A code editor of your choice (e.g., Visual Studio Code)

## Procedure

1. Create a new Flutter project by running the following command in your terminal:
    ```cmd
    flutter create my_flutter_app
    ```
    This command will create a Flutter project directory called `my_flutter_app` that contains a simple demo app using [Material Components](https://m3.material.io/components).

2. Change to the Flutter project directory:
    ```cdm
    cd my_flutter_app
    ```

3. Open the `lib/main.dart` file in your Flutter project.

4. Replace the existing code with the following code snippet:

    ```dart
    import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

    void main() {
    runApp(const MainApp());
    }

    class MainApp extends StatelessWidget {
    const MainApp({super.key});

    @override
    Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return const MaterialApp(
        title: 'Responsive UI',
        home: ResponsiveHomePage(),
        );
    }
    }

    class ResponsiveHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
    const ResponsiveHomePage({super.key});

    @override
    Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
            title: const Text('Responsive UI'),
        ),
        body: LayoutBuilder(
            builder: (BuildContext context, BoxConstraints constraints) {
            if (constraints.maxWidth >= 600) {
                // For Wide Screen (Tablet/Desktop)
                return _buildWideContainers();
            } else {
                // For Narrow Screen (Phone)
                return _buildNarrowContainers();
            }
            },
        ),
        );
    }

    Widget _buildWideContainers() {
        return Container(
        color: Colors.blue,
        child: const Center(
            child: Text(
            'You are using a Wide screen!',
            style: TextStyle(
                fontSize: 26, color: Colors.white, fontWeight: FontWeight.bold),
            ),
        ),
        );
    }

    Widget _buildNarrowContainers() {
        return Container(
        color: Colors.green,
        child: const Center(
            child: Text(
            'You are using a Narrow screen!',
            style: TextStyle(fontSize: 16, color: Colors.white),
            ),
        ),
        );
    }
    }
    ```

5. Save the file.

6. Run your Flutter project using the following command:
    ```cmd
    flutter run
    ```
    Select the appropriate device to run the app.

7. To hot reload the app and see the changes you made to the code, enter `r`. To quit the app, enter `q`.

## Output
<video controls src="exp_3_a_output.mp4" title="exp_3_a_output"></video>

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/480131a3-2863-49f2-971e-179dbe8835cf


### Extra Practice

To further enhance your understanding of responsive UI design in Flutter, you can try to implement the following additional features:

1. Divide the screen into multiple sections based on the screen size.

<video controls src="Recording 2024-07-13 203728.mp4" title="exp_3_a_practice"></video>


https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cfa0fa74-b4a9-4318-90e4-7c64c873dd2a


<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

void main() {
  runApp(const MainApp());
}

class MainApp extends StatelessWidget {
  const MainApp({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return const MaterialApp(
      title: 'Responsive UI',
      home: ResponsiveHomePage(),
    );
  }
}

class ResponsiveHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  const ResponsiveHomePage({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      appBar: AppBar(
        title: const Text('Responsive UI'),
      ),
      body: LayoutBuilder(
        builder: (BuildContext context, BoxConstraints constraints) {
          if (constraints.maxWidth >= 600) {
            // For Wide Screen (Tablet/Desktop)
            return _buildLargeScreenLayout();
          } else {
            // For Narrow Screen (Phone)
            return _buildSmallScreenLayout();
          }
        },
      ),
    );
  }

  Widget _buildLargeScreenLayout() {
    return Row(
      children: <Widget>[
        Expanded(
          child: Container(
            color: Colors.blue,
            child: const Center(
              child: Text(
                'Left Container\n(Wide Screen)',
                style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontSize: 24),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
        Expanded(
          child: Container(
            color: Colors.green,
            child: const Center(
              child: Text(
                'Right Container\n(Wide Screen)',
                style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontSize: 24),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
      ],
    );
  }

  Widget _buildSmallScreenLayout() {
    return Column(
      children: <Widget>[
        Expanded(
          child: Container(
            color: Colors.blue,
            child: const Center(
              child: Text(
                'Top Container\n(Narrow Screen)',
                style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontSize: 24),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
        Expanded(
          child: Container(
            color: Colors.green,
            child: const Center(
              child: Text(
                'Bottom Container\n(Narrow Screen)',
                style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontSize: 24),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
      ],
    );
  }
}
```
</details>

## Conclusion

In this experiment, we successfully designed a responsive UI that adapts to different screen sizes using Flutter. The UI layout and appearance adjust dynamically based on the screen size of the device, providing an optimal user experience.

## References

- [Adaptive and responsive design (Flutter)](https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/adaptive-responsive)
- [Responsive design techniques (Microsoft)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/design/layout/responsive-design)
